Were Hedge Funds Right About Ford Motor Company (F)?
The latest 13F reporting period has come and gone, and Insider Monkey have plowed through 821 13F filings that hedge funds and well-known value investors are required to file by the SEC. The 13F filings show the funds' and investors' portfolio positions as of March 31st, a week after the market trough. Now, we are almost done with the second quarter. Investors decided to bet on the economic recovery and a stock market rebound. S&P 500 Index returned almost 20% this quarter. In this article you are going to find out whether hedge funds thought Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F) was a good investment heading into the second quarter and how the stock traded in comparison to the top hedge fund picks.
Is Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F) undervalued? Money managers were selling. The number of bullish hedge fund bets decreased by 3 recently. Our calculations also showed that F isn't among the 30 most popular stocks among hedge funds (click for Q1 rankings and see the video for a quick look at the top 5 stocks). Video: Watch our video about the top 5 most popular hedge fund stocks.
In today's marketplace there are tons of indicators stock market investors put to use to size up stocks. Some of the most underrated indicators are hedge fund and insider trading interest. We have shown that, historically, those who follow the best picks of the best hedge fund managers can beat the S&P 500 by a healthy margin.
At Insider Monkey we scour multiple sources to uncover the next great investment idea. There is a lot of volatility in the markets and this presents amazing investment opportunities from time to time. For example, this trader claims to deliver juiced up returns with one trade a week, so we are checking out his highest conviction idea. A second trader claims to score lucrative profits by utilizing a "weekend trading strategy", so we look into his strategy's picks. We read hedge fund investor letters and listen to stock pitches at hedge fund conferences. We recently recommended several stocks partly inspired by legendary Bill Miller's investor letter. Our best call in 2020 was shorting the market when the S&P 500 was trading at 3150 in February after realizing the coronavirus pandemic's significance before most investors. Now let's take a glance at the key hedge fund action encompassing Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F).
What does smart money think about Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F)?
At the end of the first quarter, a total of 33 of the hedge funds tracked by Insider Monkey were long this stock, a change of -8% from one quarter earlier. On the other hand, there were a total of 33 hedge funds with a bullish position in F a year ago. With hedge funds' capital changing hands, there exists a few notable hedge fund managers who were increasing their stakes considerably (or already accumulated large positions).
Among these funds, Pzena Investment Management held the most valuable stake in Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F), which was worth $246.8 million at the end of the third quarter. On the second spot was Greenhaven Associates which amassed $165.4 million worth of shares. Arrowstreet Capital, Alkeon Capital Management, and Millennium Management were also very fond of the stock, becoming one of the largest hedge fund holders of the company. In terms of the portfolio weights assigned to each position Greenhaven Associates allocated the biggest weight to Ford Motor Company (NYSE:F), around 6.15% of its 13F portfolio. Stamos Capital is also relatively very bullish on the stock, dishing out 1.92 percent of its 13F equity portfolio to F.
Contact Information:
e-mail: thisisanemail@thisisanemail.com
U.S. Phone: +1 2025550163
993.5792340.235 PM ET
